I think of it like this:

Layer 1: The cables and connectors. There are various standards on what the lengths and types of cables are depending on what technology you're working with (e.g. twisted-pair copper, coaxial, fiber optics). Also, layer one communication basically just involves high vs low voltage (i.e. binary) signals, and doesn't concern itself with what the meanings of those signals. When I think of a Layer 1 *device* I typically think of a hub (e.g. a usb hub) that basically helps to extend cables or connect other devices.

Layer 2: Where we start to see protocols for actual meaning being conveyed through the network--i.e. there are addresses for packets, packet size concerns, and deconfliction between various network nodes. When I think of a Layer 2 *device* I typically think of a switch. Switches, unlike basic hubs, have a network MAC address that is unique to its hardware and is known to other devices on the network.

Layer 3: Here is where your home router actually lives. Because a router not only connects devices together but assists in determining where packets should be sent based on awareness of (the Layer 3 protocol) logical IP addresses (and, to be sure, there are multiple ways to set this up), the Layer 3 is really where our Network begins to gain some power. Note that while all network devices have hardware dependent MAC addresses, IP addresses can be altered to change the functionality of the network). 

Layer 4: Layer 4 is where we can think of different networks communicating with one another, and the standards involved in that communication. When I think about what make good layer 4 protocol examples, I think about the difference between TCP and UDP. These two protocols are both used quite frequently but vary in their abilities. But, what makes them unique is how each packet is handled and how the sender and receiver deal with each packet. Suffice it to say that the services provided by Layer 4 are quite a bit more abstract than at the lower levels. For example, from Wikipedia, "Transport layer services are conveyed to an application via a programming interface to the transport layer protocols... and may include the following features: Connection-oriented communication, Same order delivery, Reliability, Flow control, Congestion avoidance, Multiplexing."

A pretty introductory break down of it all can be found here: http://www.dummies.com/programming/networking/layers-in-the-osi-model-of-a-computer-network/

But, honestly, checking out each layer on Wikipedia and then following the linked sources back to the actual RFCs is a great way to dig into this stuff. Check out section 1.1.3 for a some more info right from the source: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1122#page-8  You will notice that there are different models for understanding the internet architecture... so, try not to get bogged down in the layer names and numbers, just note that there are different approaches. See: http://www.electronicdesign.com/what-s-difference-between/what-s-difference-between-osi-seven-layer-network-model-and-tcpip
