<div class="questions">

What are the top 10 vulnerabilities for 2013 as compiled by OWASP?
What is an injection flaw?
What is a XSS flaw?
What is a CSRF attack?

--

What is a cross-site scripting (XSS) attack?
What is a non-persistent XSS attack?
What is persistent XSS attack?
What is the difference between DOM based XSS, non-persistent XSS, and persistent XSS attacks?
What are some ways that you can protect against XSS?
Why do attackers URL Encode their malicious payload?
What is session hijacking?
What are some ways that you can protect against session hijacking?
What is a Cross-site Request Forgery (CSRF) attack?
How can CSRF attacks be prevented?
What is the main difference between XSS attacks and CSRF attacks?

--

What is SQL injection?
What are some things that an attacker could do using SQL injection?
How can we prevent SQL injection?
What is database privilege abuse?

--

What is cache poisoning?
Why is DNS susceptible to cache poisoning?
What is pharming?
What information must an attacker have about a DNS request to successfully poison a DNS cache?
What is Kaminsky’s cache poisoning attack?
What is the short-term defense against cache poisoning attacks?  Why does this defense work?
What could prevent outside attackers from launching a DNS cache poisoning attack?
What is DNSSEC?
What are the goals of DNSSEC?
Does DNSSEC encrypt the DNS request/response?
Why is it important that all servers in the chain from the root to local authoritative servers use DNSSEC?
What do we mean by a chain of trust?
What is the zone signing key (ZSK)?
What is the key signing key (KSK)?
What are the advantages of separating the functions of KSK and ZSK?

--

What are some of the attacks that can be launched against BGP?
How can bogus route injection (or subprefix hijack) be used to attack BGP?  How was is done by Pakistan in 2008?
What is a blackhole?
What is a BGP spoofing attack?
What are some possible defenses for BGP?

--



</div>


<div class="reading_assignments">

Textbook: "DNS Vulnerabilities" sidebar (pgs. 143-144 in 6th edition, pgs. 145-146 in 5th edition)

</div>
