<div class="questions">

What is confidentiality?
What is message integrity?
What is authentication?
What is non-repudiation?
What is plaintext?
What is a cipher?
What is ciphertext?
What is a key?

--

What information would an intruder need to perpetrate a ciphertext-only attack?  a known-plaintext attack?  a chosen-plaintext attack?
What is the difference between a block cipher and a stream cipher?
What are the two most-commonly used block ciphers?
How long would it take to brute-force 128-bit AES with the same machine that could crack 56-bit DES in one second?
What is the difference between the key size and the block size?  What are their purposes?
Why is 3DES is stronger than DES?
What key sizes can be used in AES?
Which of the symmetric key ciphers is the US government standard?
What are two public domain (non-patented) symmetric ciphers?
Why might we need to mix randomness into the ciphertext?
What is cipher block chaining (CBC)?
What is the initialization vector (IV)?

--

What is the main difference between symmetric and asymmetric encryption?
If asymmetric encryption is more secure than symmetric encryption, why do people still use symmetric encryption?
How many keys are used in public-key cryptography, or asymmetric encryption?
How can public-key cryptography be used for confidentiality?
How can public-key cryptography be used for authentication?
What is one way that public-key cryptography can be used in conjunction with symmetric key cryptography?

--

What is the purpose of the RSA algorithm?
In the RSA algorithm, what is the private key and what is the public key?
In RSA, is it feasible to determine the private key if you know the public key?  Why or why not?
What does the size of the key in the RSA algorithm refer to?
What is a digital signature?
How can Alice digitally sign a message for Bob?
How can Bob verify that the message is from Alice?
How secure is RSA?

--

What is a cryptographic hash function?
What are two widely-used hash algorithms?
What is a message authentication code?
What is the most popular standard for MAC (message authentication code)?
What is a digital signature?
How are digital signatures different than MACs?
What is the goal of public key certification?
What is a public key certificate?
What is the public key infrastructure?
What services do digital signatures provide?
What is the function of a Certificate Authority (CA)?
What is key revocation?

--

What is a stream cipher?
When is a block cipher more suitable than a stream cipher?
How does a stream cipher work?
Which operation is faster, a block cipher or a stream cipher?
What is the importance of the keystream?
What key sizes can be used in RC4?
What applications use RC4?
What is the weakness of RC4 and why is it vulnerable?
What is WEP?
What cipher does WEP use?
How can WEP be attacked?
How is WPA different from WEP?
What cipher does WPA use?
What is TKIP?
What are the weaknesses of WPA?
What is WPA2?
What cipher does WPA2 use?  Is it a stream cipher or a block cipher?
What is WPA2 Enterprise?
Put the wireless encryption techniques in order from weakest to strongest.

</div>


<div class="reading_assignments">

Introduction to Chapter 8  - "Security in Computer Networks"
Section 8.1 - "What is Network Security"
Section 8.2 - "Principles of Cryptography"
Section 8.3 - "Message Integrity and Digital Signatures"
Section 8.8 - "Securing Wireless LANs"

</div>



