Digital evidence is anything stored or transmitted on electronic or optical media. It's extremely fragile and easily altered.

In the private sector, an incident scene is often a place of work, such as a contained office or manufacturing area. 
Because everything from the computers used to violate a company policy to the surrounding facility is under a controlled authority, investigating and controlling the scene are easier than at a crime scene.

Companies should publish policies stating that they reserve the right to inspect digital assets at will; otherwise, employees' expectation of privacy prevents an employer from legally conducting an intrusive investigation or covert surveillance. A well-defined company policy states that an employer has the right to examine, inspect, or access any company-owned digital asset.

Approved procedures must be followed, even in private-sector investigations, because civil cases can easily become criminal cases. If an internal corporate case is turned over to law enforcement because of criminal activity, the corporate investigator must avoid becoming an agent of law enforcement.

Criminal cases require a correctly executed and well-defined search warrant. A specific crime and location must be spelled out in the warrant. For all criminal investigations in the United States, the Fourth Amendment specifies that a law enforcement officer can search for and seize criminal evidence only with probable cause, which is facts or circumstances that lead a reasonable person to believe a crime has been committed or is about to be committed.
The plain view doctrine applies when investigators find evidentiary items that aren't specified in a warrant or under probable cause.

When preparing for a case, describe the nature of the case, identify the type of OS, determine whether you can seize the computer or digital device, and obtain a description of the location.

If you deal with situations involving hazardous materials often, you might need to get HAZMAT certification or have someone else with this certification collect the evidence.

Always take pictures or use a video camera to document the scene. Prevent professional curiosity from contaminating evidence by limiting who enters the scene.

As you collect digital evidence, guard against physically destroying or contaminating it. Take precautions to prevent static electricity discharge to electronic devices. If possible, bag or box digital evidence and any hardware you collect from the scene. As you collect hardware, sketch the equipment, including exact markings of where components are located. 
Tag and number each cable, port, and other connection and record its number and description in a log.

Selecting a medium for storing digital evidence usually depends on how long you need to keep the evidence. The ideal storage media are CDs, DVD-Rs, DVD-RWs, or offsite storage. You can also use magnetic tape, such as 4-mm DAT and DLT magnetic tapes.

Forensic hash values are used to verify that data or storage media haven't been altered. The two most common hashing algorithms for forensics purposes are currently MD5 and SHA-1. A forensic hash can't be predicted, each file produces a unique hash value, and if the file changes, the hash value must change.

To analyze digital forensics data, learn to use more than one vendor tool. Vendors offer different methods for recovering data from digital media.

You must handle all evidence the same way every time you handle it. Apply the same security and accountability controls for evidence in a civil lawsuit as for evidence from a crime scene to comply with state or federal rules of evidence.

After you determine that an incident scene has digital data or devices, identify the information or artifacts that can be used as evidence. Next, catalog or document the evidence you find. Your goal is to preserve evidence integrity, which means you must not modify the evidence as you collect and catalog it. An incident scene should be photographed and sketched, and then each item labeled and put in an evidence bag. Collect, preserve, document, analyze, identify, and organize the evidence. Then rebuild evidence or repeat a situation to verify that you get the same results every time.